hello everyone here we are at the wax
pattern bench today I'm going to be
attaching some wax patterns to the sprue
base and prepare them to be made into
moulds every piece of jewelry starts out
as a wax pattern the wax pattern is an
exact duplicate of what we want the
casting to look like when it's finished
this wax pattern will be attached to the
sprue base then we take a cylinder and
put it over the sprue base and pour in
investment which is like a plaster of
Paris let it dry put it into a burnout
oven overnight when it heats up the the
wax burns out of the mold and leaves an
impression inside the mold that it's
exact duplicate of what the wax looks
like so it's very important to have a
very clean wax and have it very smooth
in some places so that you don't have to
do that much finishing to the casting
once it's finished now there's two ways
of making a wax pattern one is using a
rubber mold this is great for production
if you have too crude grate a bunch of
pieces we inject the wax using our hot
injection machine over here wax cools
inside the rubber mold and then we just
pop it open like this and voila you have
your wax pattern the second way is using
the CAD cam system we create a CAD file
I send my CAD files out to a service
bureau the service bureau has a rapid
prototyping machine and what we get back
from the stuff service bureau are these
blue waxes so we take these service
bureau waxes this is going to be an
engagement ring what looks like a
princess cut diamond in the center and
we add a sprue base now the sprue is
very important it is the gateway where
the gold is going to be traveling to fit
to fill in the the cavity inside the
mold so we use this hot pen
we just melt it to the end of the bottom
of the shank here let it cool a little
bit you have to be very careful with the
wax patterns they're very fragile it's
very simple to break them so once you
have the wax pattern you attach it to
the little base like this let that dry
fill in the seam like that and there you
have it now we're ready to go into the
investing room we'll create the mold